.TH "dstrfcatl" 3 "12 July 2007" "dstrfcatl" "Dstring Library"

.SH NAME
dstrfcatl, dstrfcatn, dstrcatl, dstrcatn - Reads ASCII data from a file stream and concatenates it to the end of a dstring_t object

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <dstring.h>"
.br

.B "size_t dstrfcatl(dstring_t dest, FILE *fp);"
.br
.B "size_t dstrfcatn(dstring_t dest, FILE *fp, size_t n);"
.br
.B "size_t dstrcatl(dstring_t dest);"
/* MACRO */
.br
.B "size_t dstrcatn(dstring_t dest, size_t n);"
/* MACRO */
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B "dstrfcatl()"
reads an entire line of input from FILE *fp, terminated by the '\\n' \
character (the '\\n' is included as part of the string), and appends it to \
the buffer of a dstring_t object (does NOT overwrite the previous '\\n' \
character if there is one.)

.B "dstrcatl()"
is a macro that calls dstrfcatl() with *fp pointing to stdin.  Thus, this \
macro is ordinarily used to read n characters of input from the keyboard.

.B "dstrfcatn()"
reads up to one less than n characters (not including the NULL terminating \
character), including \\n's, from FILE *fp and appends them to the buffer of \
a dstring_t object.

If size is 0, nothing will be done and dstrerrno will be set to DSTR_SUCCESS. \
New data is appended to anything previously stored in the buffer.  In the \
event of an error, the buffer will be left untouched.

.B "dstrcatn()"
is a macro that calls dstrfcatn() with *fp pointing to stdin.  Thus, this \
macro is ordinarily used to read a line of input from the keyboard.

dstrerrno will be set to indicate success or the nature of the failure.

.SH RETURN VALUE

All of the above functions return the number of characters successfully read \
from FILE *fp, or stdin in the case of dstrcatl() and dstrcatn().  In the \
even of an error or EOF before any data could be read, this value will be 0. \
In this case, dstrerrno can be used to further investigate the nature of the \
error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR <dstring.h> (0),
.BR dstrfreadl (3),
.BR dstrfreadn (3),
.BR dstreadl (3),
.BR dstreadn (3)
