.TH "dstrdel" 3 "13 July 2007" "dstrdel" "Dstring Library"

.SH NAME
dstrdel, dstrndel - Delete individual characters from a string

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <dstring.h>"
.br

.B "int dstrdel(dstring_t str, size_t index);"
.br
.B "int dstrndel(dstring_t str, size_t index, size_t n);"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B "dstrdel()"
removes a character from a dstring_t buffer at the specified 0-based index. \
Note that removing the terminating '\0' is not allowed and will result in \
dstrerrno being set to DSTR_INVALID_ARGUMENT.

.B "dstrndel()"
removes n characters from a dstring_t buffer, starting at the specified \
0-based index.  If n is 0, nothing will be done and dstrerrno will be set to \ DSTR_SUCCESS.  If n is greater than the number of characters beyond the \
specified index, everything at the index and beyond will be deleted from the \
string.

dstrerrno will be set to indicate success or the nature of the error.

.SH RETURN VALUE

.B "dstrdel()"
returns a number less than 0 if an error occured (in which case dstrerrno \
should be examined.)  If the return value is greater than or equal to 0, \
the return value is the character that was deleted from the string.

.B "dstrndel()"
returns the length of the string after n characters have been removed.  If \
an error occured, or if n was 0, nothing will be removed from the string, and \
the return value will thus be the original length of the string.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR <dstring.h> (0),
.BR dstrinsertc (3),
.BR dstrgetc (3),
.BR dstrxchg (3)
